Yina Arenas:
Hello.
Welcome to Building Smart AI
Systems in Foundry,
as everything
in the world evolves around us.
I'm Yina. I lead Product
for Microsoft Foundry.
And I'm joined today with
Naomi, who does all the work
for shipping all of the
models in Microsoft Foundry.
And in the next 45 minutes,
we're going to talk
about something that every
team building with AI faces.
You build the systems,
and the landscape
around you keeps evolving.
The models, the tools, the set
of capabilities around them,
it's all shifting around you.
And let's be honest, a year ago,
building an AI app felt
a lot more simple.
You pick the model, you wire
it up, and you ship it.
But now you're no longer
building just chat apps.
You're full-on building agentic
systems, long-running systems
that have to
continuously improve.
And that is a little
bit more challenging.
And here's what I see every
single developer face, run into.
They have a hard time picking
the right model for the task.
There's a lot of
models in the market.
More keep coming
every single day.
The benchmarks look great on
paper, but they don't tell you
if their model is good
for your scenario.
And then the costs are really,
really hard to predict.
And then you can
do some analysis
when you're building it, but
when you put it into production
and see the bill, it's painful.
Right? So, the moment
that you have something
that is fully built
and out there,
then the next model is
in, the next tool is out,
and all of these different
things need to keep changing.
And you have to continuously
be building this system,
and the landscape keeps
moving around you.
Now, what you want is a system
that is simpler, that is better,
that is more cost-effective, and
that is scalable as you bring it
into production, and that
gives you the best outcome
for your scenario.
And today we're going to show
you how you can actually get
there using Microsoft Foundry
as the underlying platform.
What you need in order
to get there is not just
a better prompt system,
or a newer model, or
the latest MCP tool.
What you need is a system that
continuously improves over time
and a platform that enables
you all the way from building
to governing and
managing at scale.
For that, we start with building
with GitHub Copilot CLI,
grounding with
all of the sets of
information that you might have
within your organization,
whether it is your
productivity data in Work IQ,
your structured data in
Fabric IQ, all of the context
and knowledge that you
might want to bring
to your agents using Foundry IQ,
and all of the world's
knowledge using Web IQ.
Then running that in Foundry
using Foundry-hosted agents,
governing with A365, and then
improving over time with a set
of platform capabilities
that Foundry offers.
And that's where
Foundry comes in.
It's the platform that
enables you to take models,
agent service, all of the
grounding information,
the tools, the post-training
capabilities, and bring that all
to bear for you to
leverage in your scenario.
And the platform
is fully governed
for the entire
agentic lifecycle,
not just for running inferencing
or for building a specific
point-on solution.
It's for you to be
able to build, deploy,
and operate at scale,
and continuously improve
your entire system.
And this is an
important mental shift.
And if there's, I will say,
one thing that you take
out of this session
today, it's how we need
to evolve how we think about
what was QA-ing our solutions.
So as a developer, you used
to think about I'll build it,
and then I'll think
about QA at the end.
Actually, that needs to
be entirely shifted left,
and now you have to think
about your success criteria
and evaluation first, so
that then you can think
about how you're going to
continuously improve over time
and build a resilient
solution that decouples
from the model evolving,
from tools changing,
and from the context
evolving itself.
That way, you can
actually build a solution
that is more ready
for the test of time.
And there's a set of
optimization categories,
I'll just go back for a second,
that then, once you have your
evaluations
defined, are actually
going to tell you, what are the
set of levers that you can pull
to optimize the system.
And this is how we're going
to structure the rest
of the talk today.
We're going to go through
selection, evaluation,
optimization, and scaling.
Okay. We're going to start,
and then we're going to do it
around the model ecosystem.
So, we're going to have other
sessions throughout the
conference in which we're
going to go deeper into more
of the agentic side and
then also, more of deeper
into the post-training
capabilities
that we have around models.
Okay. Let's start with Select.
Naomi Moneypenny:
All right.
Awesome. So, lots and lots
of model available
for you in Foundry.
Hopefully, that's
really good news,
because you saw a great set
of announcements this
morning at the keynote.
And we're going to build on that
and tell you a little bit more
about what's going on.
Because every AI
system really belongs
with selecting models, right?
We want to think about
not just looking
at the specific model you need
for all of your use cases,
but instead, actually, looking
at model choice is something
that you need to define by task.
And so you think
about this as kind
of an ongoing systems decision.
Yina talked about it.
That model lifecycle is
continuously accelerating.
We're always bringing the
best and latest to you.
But we want to make sure that
we're able to bring and optimize
across these different areas.
So let's think about how we
approach model selection
as part of this.
So, of course, in any AI
application, models are kind
of your raw materials
to get started with.
And you build so many big
things on top of this as part
of your AI applications.
But what matters is not
just the model itself,
but is it the right model
for the job that you have?
And, of course, with Foundry
models, developers can access,
explore, compare,
and do many things
across the Foundry model catalog
with a consistent API and,
of course, an enterprise
curation that's built
in as part of this.
And so, of course, this means
less thinking about more the,
sorry, this means more around
faster experimentation,
being able to get to production
faster, and then being able
to deploy this quickly as
your requirements change.
Now, a couple things
that I want to mention
on this slide in particular.
We have, of course, our
flagship models there.
You see OpenAI and Anthropic,
as we talk about all the time.
I do want to have
a special callout
with our amazing
partnership that we have
with Hugging Face
because, of course,
Jeff is sitting right there.
Woo. Go Hugging Face!
Love Hugging Face, folks.
Yes, yes, thank you.
So, we love our OSS models.
We have a great
partnership with them,
populate so many things
inside of the Foundry catalog,
and talk a little bit
later on about one
of the announcements
we have there as well.
And so really, we can think
about these new
models coming in.
You heard about NVIDIA this
morning as well, and being able
to access both the flagship
capabilities and the best
of the OSS models
across the board.
So let's talk about Claude.
Claude is also out there.
We launched Opus 4.8 last week
as our newest model that's
in our Foundry catalog.
Please do check it
out as part of this.
And I'm excited that
today, we can announce
that Claude is finally
running on Azure.
It is actually running on
GB300, our highest-end hardware
that we have available.
And it really gives us a
great way to be able to bring
that anthropic lifecycle,
all of the development tools
and bringing them directly
to you from Azure.
So really exciting stuff
as part of this, too.
Cool. Somebody is excited.
One person at least was
excited about Claude.
People excited about Claude?
Yes. Thank you.
All right.
So, all good.
Let's talk about
Microsoft AI models.
So, we brought a lot of energy
this morning in the keynote.
If you saw with Mustafa there,
we've announced different models
that are coming onto Foundry.
They are live this morning.
My team just pushed them.
So woo, go all those folks.
Amazing. So it's incredible
to see that go live
as Mustafa was talking.
And so, really, you
can think about this
as being exciting for
Microsoft itself.
It's not that we're building
the amazing platform
that we have inside of
Foundry, but it's also
that we're bringing these
first-party models to you,
really bringing the
best to what we can do,
running those efficiently and
cost-optimization scenarios
that are really well handled,
especially, I would say,
for example, Image 2.5.
This is one of the
latest models out there.
Please go try it out.
It's a great one as well.
And we can really see across
thinking, across image,
across code, and audio models.
We really have a full multimodal
application stack that's really
coming out with those
first-party models, too.
So, lots and lots of
goodness that's happening
across the board
with Foundry models.
So, what was our strategy?
So, we've got lots of
goodness in the catalog.
We've got 11,000 plus
models to look for,
but there's even more
that's part of this, too.
So with Foundry models, our
strategy really is to innovate
across that full AI spectrum.
And so you see here,
on the one side,
you've really got
the production-grade
frontier models.
You can use those quickly
inside of your applications,
and they have those strict
operational requirements there.
On the other side, we also want
to bring you that cutting edge,
that experimentation that really
helps you unleash the research
and develop that as part
of your applications, too.
And so you can check out
things Foundry Labs.
We've got a new set of
capabilities that are out there,
primarily from
Microsoft Research.
The latest and greatest
pieces are there.
And then we basically
have a great place
to build your models.
You can build them
with confidence
and then explore the frontiers
of what could be really
essential for the future.
So, next piece of this is
understanding the shifts
that we are seeing.
So, it's not just about
one reasoning model
or one frontier model
happening across all
of your different use cases.
Instead, we really want
to think about the shifts
that are happening within
those different segments.
And so you can see now, this
increasingly is coming
from these purpose-built models.
And so, purpose-built models
that are for specific domains.
And so, not every problem
warrants having the same general
purpose model, of course.
So, geospatial, robotics,
biomedical, material science,
code search, media,
lots and lots
of different categories
of models in here.
And you need specific
ones for that.
So, as developers,
you really think
about the best system
design, that's being able
to apply the models that you
can within those domain areas.
And so, one of the
ones that I'll call
out here specifically that's
newest is Aurora 1.5.
You can see it here on
our geospatial pieces.
It's really an amazing
weather modeling system.
So, if you have a great
application for this,
we really think this
is the cutting edge,
has that satellite imagery
in there, atmospheric data,
and can really scale out where
traditional models can't.
So, lots and lots of goodness
happening across here, too.
Yina Arenas:
NVIDIA.
Naomi Moneypenny: Yeah, we're
also expanding our partnership
with NVIDIA, bringing in vision
and models from NVIDIA Nemotron,
reasoning models, models for
physical AI like Cosmos,
and the new NVIDIA
AI weather models
like Earth-2 technologies.
These models enable developers
and enterprises to build systems
that reason, act, and respond
to real-world conditions
and just going beyond software
workloads into physical AI.
We actually have a pre-recorded
session with a very,
very cool demo on physical AI
that I recommend
that you catch on.
Together with NVIDIA, we are
enabling a unified platform
where developers can build,
run, and scale AI systems
that span into physical.
Okay. So, let's see our
Foundry models in action.
I'm just going to give you
a quick pointer as you land
in the Foundry portal.
So, this is the Foundry
portal, where you can see all
of the different models
that we have available,
all of the different
set of providers.
We have a leaderboard
where we benchmark models
across different sets of
dimensions: quality,
safety, throughput, cost.
And we bring all of the
models and also have a set
of trade-off charts you
can use to select models based
on your particular
set of trade-offs.
We also have the ability
to compare models
across different providers,
whether it is open-source models
or closed models, and see
how are they comparing
across the different
benchmarks that we have,
and running side-by-side models.
If you want to see how
they behave on a given set
of prompts, how much time do
they take, what is the responses
that they have, you can do
these comparisons side-by-side.
This is really good when
you're doing prototyping.
You can also save as an agent.
And when you save as
an agent, of course,
then new capabilities show up,
like you can add a specific set
of tools, knowledge,
memory, and guardrails.
And you can also set a
specific set of metrics.
In this particular case,
I've set up task adherence,
intent resolution,
and relevance as part
of the out-of-the-box metrics
that, then, Foundry will do
evaluations every time
that the agent is invoked.
So, in this, when I go
and run a request,
it's going to do a trace that
I can then go and watch.
And it's going to give me the
specific spans around duration,
what each of the
turns are going in.
And then it's going to
also give me the outputs
of that evaluation.
In this case, it's
doing LLMs as a judge.
And it's going to tell
whether or not it's passing.
And it's going to give me
a specific set of verbatim
on what happened
during that call.
So, this is a great way into
which you can take the models
that are available in the
catalog, run a set of queries
against them, and start getting
ready for prototyping with them.
Naomi Moneypenny:
Awesome.
All right.
Oops.
There we go.
Yina Arenas: And then,
throughout the session,
what we're going to do is,
we're going to use a scenario
where we're going to be
building a trip planning app.
And this one is basically a
typical scenario that you have
in the enterprise where there's
a specific goal that you have
to understand the intent,
you have to then make sure
that you're making a set of
decisions based on the prompts
that you're getting, and then
giving an output to the user.
As I mentioned at the beginning,
the key part of that,
and that we want you to take
away, is that you need to start
with what success looks like.
What is your success criteria
when it comes to correctness,
when it comes to compliance,
when it comes to user behavior,
and when it comes to what
are you going to use
in the application to
take it to production.
And in that concept comes in
the notion of hill climbing.
And you saw this in the keynote,
where because you have a
very clear understanding
of what is your success
criteria, then you can go
and continuously improve on it.
And this is what we're
going to do in the session.
We're going to create that
benchmark, and we're going
to continuously improve on that.
Typically, the developer
workflow starts
where you have a scenario.
You have an understanding
of what success looks like.
And then you're going
to prototype it
with what is the latest
and greatest model
that has been
recently announced.
With that, you can get a
really good understanding
of how the scenario behaves
and whether your particular
application can --
what would be the
baseline for that.
This is what we're going
to do at the first step.
And just shoutout, everything
that we're going to show,
of course, we build
it with agents.
And you can try it yourself.
So this is the aka.ms link for
all of the code that we're going
to show during the session.
And we're not going to go
with deeply super into code.
We're just going
to show outputs.
But everything is right now
in the GitHub repo
for you to try along.
And, of course, I just want to,
just a shoutout of gratitude
for Nithya, who was the
mastermind behind all
of the demos.
She did a great job to it.
So, with that, let's
jump into it.
Naomi Moneypenny:
All right.
Sorry, number 101.
Yina Arenas:
Thank you.
Naomi Moneypenny:
All right.
Awesome. As Yina mentioned, so
we have an incredible repo here.
I do, guys, encourage you
all to go check it out.
You can see, definitely, all
the code that's being generated.
You can go through and follow
these demos at the same time.
But in the spirit of
being able to make sure
that we're using agentic
workflows as part
of what we're doing, I want
to show you a little bit
about the outcome and how
we're generating these things.
So, we go through our scenario.
So, Yina mentioned we
are doing a travel app.
We need to build it
for a robust set
of employee queries
as part of this.
And so, first off is just
establishing what is
our baseline.
We can't improve unless
we know what's going on.
And so, we've taken a model
straight off the bat.
So, GPT 4.1, we're going to
apply it basically to every task
in here and just
establish our baseline.
So, you can see we're going
to work through here,
being able to
understand a little bit
about the evaluations run.
We just have a very
simple data set.
We're just starting this off.
We're prototyping
our application.
So, we're starting off with
20 or so seed rows of data.
And you can check out
the different pieces.
So, here's our scorecard.
Okay. It's not great.
Right? It's not great.
We just have to accept it's
the beginning of our journey.
We're just starting our hill
climb, and so, it's not great.
So, quality, you can see in
this case, is a lot lower
than we wanted as our target.
You can see that cost per task
is actually pretty expensive.
And we've got latency here.
So, latency is not bad, right?
Latency is not bad.
But we know where we need to
improve as part of this here.
Yina Arenas: It's worth
mentioning that here in quality,
we're just using out-of-the-box
evaluators like task adherence
and task completion in order
to understand the quality.
And then we'll unpack
a little bit more
on how you can bring
your own domain data.
Naomi Moneypenny:
Yeah.
So, the big problem here
is that we used one model,
one Frontiers model, in
this case, for every job,
including, basically, what
are the cheap ones in here.
So, essentially, we used a
Ferrari for a grocery run.
So, we need to not do that.
So, we can think about the eval
data here helps us to understand
where we need to go
improve really quickly.
So, in this case, we can
understand, how do we think
about the model itself,
what are we going to do
for the next pieces of it,
and how are we going to route
that content going forward.
So, a reality check.
This is where we're
starting on our hill climb.
So, we're at 0.8.
Sorry, we need to get to 0.8.
And our baseline is
sitting at 0.59.
So, that gap is really helpful.
It helps to understand
where we need to go.
And so, our job is
basically not to guess.
We need to go through and
look at this methodically.
So, this is where we use that
whole loop that we talked
about at the beginning.
We're going to think
about that baseline,
we're going to measure it
honestly, and then we're going
to decide where that
next game comes from.
And so, this is really
the piece, here,
where we're decomposing
that workflow.
So, that employee's
travel request,
it may look a simple thing.
We're all very
familiar with this.
But we want to decompose it
into the different tasks.
Essentially, we have
a job to be done.
And for each of these jobs to
be done, we need to make sure
that we have the right
model and be able
to use that directly here.
So we don't want to
overbuild for each step.
We want to make sure that we're
decomposing it correctly,
choose the right prompt,
choose the right model,
choose the right tool as
part of this, and then,
of course, the right context.
Decomposition, in this case, is
really the way that we think
about that first optimization
move as part of this.
Yina Arenas:
Yeah, think about it as like,
when you're building an
enterprise solution,
you want to think about
microservices architecture
and not using a single model for
everything in your solution.
Break it apart.
What are the jobs to be done?
And for each of the
jobs to be done,
you can optimize a specific
model that you use for that.
And the smaller the model,
the faster you can do it,
and the more cost you can
have on optimization.
Then, one of the best ways,
and the simplest ways
that you can use
when you decompose
into multiple models is
to use a model router.
The model router
takes, automatically,
the prompts that you have,
and then will analyze,
based on the prompt,
which is the best model
to send the request to.
We have in Foundry
a model router.
And, actually, it supports
28 different models,
including GPT-5.4, GPT-5.5
family, Claude Opus models.
And then it has, also, automatic
failover to improve all
of the customer experience.
It has agentic support.
And also, starting today,
we're now being able
to govern the policies of
which models are being used
by model router so that from
a governance perspective,
you can auto-select
just the models
that you want your solution to,
or that you might want
your solution just to use.
We're also investing more on
model routers so that further
down the line, we're going to
open the ability to customize,
to fine-tune the router itself,
and to bring in
fine-tuned models.
The second way that you can do,
instead of using a model router,
is, where you build
a router yourself.
And you have a small model
that routes the intent.
And, for example, you
can use a 4.1 Nano model
or a Mistral Small model to
just basically give it a set
of rules.
And you say, this is all of the
different set of scenarios,
this is all of the different
jobs, and then route
to the models that are
specifically treating the jobs
on the solution.
Let's take a look
at that in action.
Naomi Moneypenny:
Thank you.
Awesome. So, let's
take a look here.
So, you can see our simple
router is coming here,
where we're helping to decompose
those different tasks.
So, we look at the different
intent as part of this,
and then be able to run this,
to be able to understand how
to best use the model itself.
So, once we've looked
at those areas,
I won't spend your time looking
at code, but in this case,
we'll understand and decompose
these different pieces.
So, once we have run this,
we can actually see
that the agent has gone through.
It's looked at the
different intents.
It has broken down where we need
to have this, and then be able
to understand, as well, for
things like for each task,
which model is
being recommended.
So, here we go.
We can say that the
quality results here,
you can see we're
actually optimizing
for quality in this case.
So, we've got the
recommendations coming
through from this
different skill.
We've configured and deployed
it as part of all of this.
And then we can see out of here,
our synthetic data has
now become much bigger.
So, we took on our 20
original seed rows.
We've created more synthetic
data directly from Foundry.
So, this is a great way of being
able to just quickly use this
to generate the data that you
need to test your application.
So, you can see I've got a
target of 170 rows here.
And then out of that 170,
we're going to pick 50
and use those correctly.
So, here's that 50.
I'm going to check out
my different task types.
And now, I'm going to
go ahead and run this.
So, once I've done these
eval results, here we go.
So, we can actually check out.
So, where were we before?
We were looking at our
single frontier model,
where we were just running 4.1.
And now, we've run that
multi-model router,
and you can see the results
have improved here.
So, cost and task,
we've really gotten
down to where we need to be.
Cost has significantly
improved as a part of this.
And then, we can
still work on some
of these other
areas, like latency.
Let's keep going.
So, when you think about model
selection, it's really coming
down to these three
different questions.
So, oftentimes we think about,
whether you're choosing
that model, it's
whether you think
about that capability
piece of it.
Can it even do the job
at all a part of this?
We also want to think about,
what's the bar for production.
When we're looking at
latency, when we're looking
at cost optimization,
can it do the job
that you need inside
of production?
And then, of course, can you
afford to run it at that scale?
This is the other piece
of when people often look
at these different
areas, it's like, costs
and those pieces really
play a big factor
into how you scale up.
So benchmarks, of course,
can help you in this case.
They can understand a little bit
more about where you're going.
But they shouldn't make
the decision for you.
And it's a really important
piece of looking at this.
The answer comes from your
workload, what model to use,
evaluate on your workload,
not the beautiful benchmarks
that are out there
as part of this.
So, let's go into evaluating and
understanding a little bit more.
Yina Arenas:
Yeah.
This is a great segue, because
that's what we're saying, is,
benchmarks is not
necessarily what is going
to lead your decision making
in selecting a model.
It's how do you
evaluate on your data,
and that should drive
your model selection.
As part of Foundry, we
have an extensive model
and evaluation catalog.
But the key, again, key
point of the session,
start with evaluations.
And in the improvement loop,
the evaluation becomes
your product spec.
And as you're hill climbing,
the evaluations become your IP.
This is where you're going
to have your data come in,
your success criteria,
and the definition
of what good looks like for you.
It defines which trade-offs
are going to matter for you,
and it's the measuring stick
for every single change
that you're going to
make to the system,
whether that change is something
that you're making, or something
that you have to react to, like,
for example, model lifecycle.
The model is no longer
available in the catalog.
Now what are you going to do?
You have to continuously
run this set of evaluations
to make sure that as you bring
in a new set of components
to your solution,
you can continue
to run as you're expecting.
So, for this specific
scenario that we're using
on the planner trip evaluation,
things like correctness,
policy compliance.
And when I say "policy,"
it's the companies,
they always have
a travel policy.
You must only spend this amount
of dollars per diem, per day.
You only can have this --
if there's more than
a seven-hour trip,
you can go do business or not.
Right? All of these
different sets of policies
that are specific
for the scenario.
The tool call validity,
the escalation accuracy,
when does it need to go to a
human, when not, and, of course,
safety and privacy as well.
Now, in Foundry, we have a set
of evaluators that you can use.
We have built-in evaluators that
help measure around quality,
things like, is the intent
being adhered or not.
It can help also measure
built-in evaluators around risk
and safety, and also
agentic evaluators
that will help you understand
if the solution is actually
following across multiple terms.
We also have the ability to
create custom evaluators,
prompt code, and, as we
are announcing today
at the conference,
rubric-based evaluators.
Oh, we're announcing today,
Let me show you that.
Okay. This is the evaluation
catalog in Foundry.
These are all of the
out-of-the-box evaluators
and the different set of
categories that I have here.
If you come in and create an
evaluator, you're going to see
that you can have a rubric,
prompt, or code-based evaluator.
When I go with "Prompts,"
it gives you the ability
to select the prompt,
get the code.
When I go with "Rubric," I
can select a specific agent.
It's going to take the
definition of that agent.
And then it's going to generate.
It's going to take a little bit,
because it analyzes the agent.
So, it's going to generate
a specific set of rubrics
and across different dimensions.
So in this case, what I
did is I took an agent,
this is the concierge starter
agent, the travel agent
that we're working on.
And then based on the definition
and some of this seeding set
of trajectories
that the agent had,
it generated seven different
dimensions on this rubric.
And I can come in further
and do edits on it.
So, for example, if I say, the
policy compliance is actually
more important, I'm not going
to give it a weight of five;
I'm going to give it
a weight of eight,
and then update this and run it.
When I run it, I'm going to
see all of the different sets
of results on all of the
different dimensions
that I have, including both
successes and not successes.
And I can do further
analysis of these results.
And Foundry will show me a
cluster analysis across all
of the different sets of
evaluators that run,
where I can see, where did
the agent hallucinate it,
where it didn't produce
an adequate final answer.
And I can go deeper
and understand what is
happening across the system.
Everything that
you see on the UI,
we can also do in
code, of course.
So, let's take a look at code.
Naomi Moneypenny:
Awesome.
So, just to show you a little
bit about our travel policy.
Obviously, this is just for
the example for our demo here.
But you can see in this
case, we've got a scale file
that outlines clearly where
the travel policy is.
And that's basically what
we're grounding against.
And so, making sure that
we have access to that
to generate our rubric.
So, in this case
we've got a judge.
We've got a generic judge
that's operating here.
So, we can see that that
LLM is actually looking
at answer quality, but we need
to make sure that we have
that five axes of the
rubric to evaluate against.
And so you can see
it outlines here.
We can check it out and make
sure that it's part of here.
So, right now, the score is the
mean as part of this, too.
And so, it doesn't really
qualify everything that we need.
So, in this case, we're going to
rerun with both of those agents
with all of those three
evaluators as part of this, too.
You can see here, it's
grinding through,
crunching through all the data,
making sure we have
that eval piece done.
And then, here's our scorecard
that gets resulted at the end.
So, again, comparing to
where we were, versus now;
where we're going to
be in the future, here.
So, you can see in this case,
we've got policy adherence.
And before, we were
striking it red.
Still pretty red on this,
but you can see now our
multi-model router has actually
made that even better from
a quality perspective.
But our target has
been missed still.
So, we still got a bit
of hill climbing to do,
but we're definitely
making an improvement.
But we can see that that
LLM judge has not been able
to take it on from a
generic perspective.
So, policy, that's the one
that really matters here.
Yina Arenas: There's an
important call-out there,
which is, like, at the
beginning, we did an assessment
on quality, on just
baseline evaluators.
It gave us like, okay,
you're about halfway there.
And then we looked at, is
it really following the
travel policy?
And it wasn't.
We needed to create a
custom evaluator specific
for that travel policy to see
if it is following the
policy continuously or not.
And this is where it says,
okay, now that particular angle
of the scenario is not being
met, and you need to figure
out, how do you optimize
for that outcome.
Right? That's where the quality
definition that you have is
so important and might
also shift over time
as you get more details
on your scenario.
Naomi Moneypenny:
Awesome.
So, let's keep going.
I think that's
part of this, too.
So, we've got our custom
evaluator essentially here.
And now our hill climb
has to continue.
All right.
So, let's talk about
optimization.
So, this is really that section
where we find the biggest wins.
This is across your
whole application.
We've gone through these
different segments.
And so, we want to make
sure that cost reduction
in AI rarely comes from just
choosing a cheaper model.
I see customers doing
this all the time.
I'm sure you all have
tried this as well.
Don't think about it as
being a cheaper model.
It is about the
architectural decisions
that you are making inside
of your application.
So, optimization is
that hill climb.
You can see that we've got the
categories on the side, here,
that helps us to understand
these multiple dimensions.
So, we're not just pushing
on cost in this case.
We're actually
pushing on quality
or just pushing on latency.
We need to find a way to
improve the system meaningfully
across all of these dimensions.
And so, that's why we want
to think about optimization
as a really iterative
process through this.
You start off with things
like prompt improvements.
You're going to carry on with
better context, and then,
essentially, have decomposition
routing as we showed and then,
of course, deeper architectural
latency here, levers here.
So, you want to think about
maybe the goal is not having a
perfect endpoint.
It's really about how do we
make that system really operate
and measurable faster and better
with every single choice.
So, when teams talk about AI
cost, and I'm sure you all think
about cost, can I show of
hands folks who are thinking
about costs in
their applications?
Almost, I would say, at least
three-quarters of the room.
The rest of you are
obviously ballers
for all of your AI token use.
So, it's all good.
So, when teams talk about
this AI cost piece of this,
the instinct is to ask
for that cheaper model.
But in practice, it's actually
the biggest wins are coming
from those system designs.
We have a full stack of
levers inside of Foundry.
And so, I often think
about, here, hey,
can I do routing by workload?
Can I make sure I'm
using batch inference?
Right? That can save
you lots of money
as part of what we're doing.
You can think about
that async jobs.
We've got structured outputs
here for wasted tokens,
caching here to help you
avoid those repeated work,
and distillation that brings
down some of the cost as well.
The important point is,
for every single one
of these levers,
those gains compound.
So, think about it
across that spectrum.
You're basically not just
doing one magical fix,
as much as we would all
love that to happen.
You basically need an
architecture that helps you
to take advantage of that
and lets you stack all
of those optimizations together.
So, that brings me into caching.
Caching is a big
area for all of us.
We've been on this journey
for implicit caching.
We've been into this
expanding out, as we think
about different areas of caching
and how they've been
improved over time.
And so today, we're
really excited
to have an optimization
that's coming
to caching that's
new and different.
So, caching has really evolved
from that low-level
optimization.
And we want to make
sure as part of this,
we have explicit prompt caching.
Explicit prompt caching
is our newest service
where we're really looking
at core system capabilities
into that AI platform.
And so, it's not just about
here's one lever we can pull,
but instead about
understanding not just
where the request lands, but
delivering, where we can,
a consistent and
guaranteed performance,
make sure that you have
the savings that you need.
Now, the cool thing here, is you
have that Azure context cache.
And so, this is not owned by
us, the inference provider.
This is owned by you.
Exciting, right, that you
have this context cache.
It is your data.
You get to look at
your deployments
and your savings
as part of this.
And so, you can think about this
as really having better
privacy controls.
It has better
operational availability
across long-running tasks.
And it is available for
private preview today.
Exciting? Yes?
Yes. Cool.
[APPLAUSE]
Awesome. I love it.
So, I'm excited about this one.
It's a big piece of this.
All right.
Let's carry on on our journey.
Latency. So, we
think about that.
It's not just about, again,
picking that faster model.
It's actually about how
we design a faster system
as part of all of this.
And so, you can improve
the responsiveness here
at multiple stages.
And so, we want to make sure
that you can route each task,
essentially, to a faster model.
You saw us demo
some of that, too.
You can think about reserve
capacity with things like PTU
as part of this, consistency,
having that consistency
under a large workload.
And then, of course,
use priority processing
where you need that
toll road, basically,
that helps you quickly
with low latency.
And so, we want to make sure
that you can remove wasted
work with prompt caching.
We talked about predicted
outputs, as well
as structured outputs, and
tighter token budgets.
So, again, for all of those
of you on that token budget,
the important part here.
Streaming, of course, helps
us here with making sure
that we have perceived speed.
And then, API gateways, as
part of this, can help you
to optimize that traffic
across all of these regions.
So, the whole idea here, that
whole premise in all of this is
to make sure production
latency is engineered for.
It is not something you
just hope and wish for.
Really important
piece of all of this.
All right.
Last one. Let's
talk about quality.
So, quality levers.
You've got an idea now.
You've got lots of levers.
You can pull all these levers,
do amazing things inside
of your applications.
And so, in this case, where
quality is our constraint,
there's really a progression
of levers that you can use.
You can think about how we go
from lightweight, essentially,
to heavyweight on the
other side of the slide.
So, in this case, prompt design.
Number one thing I would
share is, always start
with prompt design.
Make sure that you basically are
doing something that's faster
and cheapest as you can do.
And then you can basically
ground that system
with the retrieval or
tool use other pieces
that you need as part of this.
If you need to go stronger,
then you can go into things
like fine-tuning
and distillation.
We'll talk about those
in just a second.
And for really highly
specialized phases, you could go
into your domain and have
a custom model training
in this case.
The key is not to jump to
the heaviest solution first.
I know it's tempting.
Don't do it.
Start with the
prompt pieces first.
Go all the way to the
other end of the spectrum.
Use as you need.
And, again, incrementally
stack all of those benefits.
Yina Arenas: And we're going
to start with the heaviest.
We're going to do the model one.
Naomi Moneypenny:
Of course.
Yina Arenas:
But there's a full session
on agent optimization
that I totally recommend
that you go to.
We're going to show how you can
automatically analyze what is
happening with your agent,
look at how you can
optimize your prompts
and how you can
optimize your tools.
Please also go to
that session as well.
Okay. So, for the policy
itself, what we're going
to do is, we're going to use
distillation and fine-tuning
to improve on that travel
policy adherence issue
that we saw before.
Why we're doing this?
Well, because we're going
to take this knowledge
of the travel policy
and we're going
to embed it into the model.
We're going to use a bigger
teacher model and then teach
that into a smaller
model to make sure
that we can maintain
the cost optimization
that we want to achieve.
Let's see that in code.
So, first of all, fine-tuning
is super simple.
For the set of models that we
have as part of supervised --
we actually have
multiple techniques.
We have supervised fine-tuning
that are preference
optimization.
We have RL.
We have all of these as part
of a managed service
within Foundry.
It's a few clicks in
the UI or a few lines
of code in your Python code.
Let me just quickly share
how that looks like.
First, you're selecting
your endpoint.
Then, you're selecting
your data set.
Then, you're also looking at
what is the set of models,
what is your base model,
what is your training model.
And then, within less
than 100 lines of code,
you have the job ready to
submit for a training run.
Once you do that, so what we did
here is, we did
the training run,
and then we went in and did
full deployment of that
into a developer tier.
Developer tier is a way
into which you can
try multiple models
that you are fine-tuning,
deploy them in.
It's super cheap to run.
And then, you can test them
against your particular data.
In this particular case,
we see these are the two
prior runs that we've done.
And then, with the fine-tuned
model in a 1.2 GPT-4.1 Nano,
we got all the way up into
the quality that we wanted
for that particular scenario.
So, in a very simple fine-tuning
run, we got to the quality
that we wanted, and the
output that we wanted,
on that particular set.
We can also see this is the
fine-tuning experience, here
in Foundry, where we
can see the loss curve
and the token accuracy that we
got from that particular run.
And then, we can continuously
fine-tune, basically,
as we get new sets of
trajectories coming in,
the model will
continuously tune.
And then, we can see all of the
different checkpoints, and look
at the checkpoints, and bring
in checkpoints as well.
Okay. Let's go back to
the specific set of --
this is where we are in terms
of the optimization
of the scenario.
But in terms of Foundry, I
mentioned, we have multiple ways
into which you can
post-train models.
There's managed fine-tuning,
which is what I showed just now,
which is the simplest
way to do it.
You bring your data, and
Foundry handles everything
that there is, the data
preparation, the training,
the monitoring, the deployment.
It has the highest
likelihood of success
if you are not a machine-
learning professional
or a data scientist that
has done ML in the past.
And it's very low-effort.
You can pick whether you want
to do supervised fine-tuning,
direct reference optimization,
or reinforced fine-tuning.
We also have serverless API.
Oh. Oops. We also
have a serverless API
that we're launching
here as part of Build,
where you can have
control of your rewards,
and the hyper parameters,
and Foundry handles
the infrastructure.
It produces a set of lower
weights, where, then,
we overlay on top of the set
of deployments that we have.
There's no cluster management
that you have to do.
And finally, we also
offer full-control RL,
where you can have full
ownership of the code,
the distributed strategies that
you're using, the algorithms
that you're bringing, what type
of GPU clusters you're using.
And then, Foundry manages
for you the compute
and the orchestration.
And you can use frameworks
like Slime or VERL
in order to do the training.
Of course, my recommendation
is that you start
at the simplest one, see what
you get, because, again,
you have the evaluations.
This is the importance of
defining your success criteria.
And then, move towards the right
as your scenario demands.
Once you have your customized
model, then you can bring it
in Foundry and run it.
If it is an open-source model,
we have Foundry-managed compute
and the partnership
that we announced
in GA today with Fireworks.
Or you can deploy it on
your own compute clusters.
Speaking of Fireworks,
we are announcing the
general availability,
and that what it brings to
customers is zero-day access
to optimize frontier models,
the best-in-class inferencing
performance, and making sure
that it has that native
integration into Azure
for that enterprise foundation.
So, that's the key
differentiation when it comes
to leveraging
Fireworks directly,
versus leveraging Fireworks
on Foundry, which means that it
deeply integrates across all
of the enterprise
stack that we offer.
We also have Managed Compute
in Microsoft Foundry,
which basically is for teams
that are standardizing
on open models and making
sure that they want
to have a broad model selection.
This is where our partnership
with Hugging Face shines in,
all of the different sets of
models that we are coming
in from, thousands of
models that are coming
in from Hugging Face, from
NVIDIA, from Microsoft Research.
Then you can use optimized
runtimes like vLLM, SGLang,
then NVIDIA NIM's runtime as
well for efficient execution,
and then, have all of the
flexibility on compute,
where Foundry manages
the accelerators.
And you can bring
your own capacity
to have this seamlessly
integrated across the stack.
It uses the same auth.
It uses the same API endpoints.
It uses the same SDK.
And then, you don't have to
manage all of that separately.
Naomi Moneypenny:
All right.
We can talk about operations
a little bit more.
So, this is where our AI
systems are really looking
like production systems.
And so, once you have
selection, evaluation,
and optimization done, the next
challenge is really making sure
that we are operating that
system with discipline.
So, that really means
observability.
And so, I won't show too
much of a demo here.
It's in there.
It's available for you
in the Foundry portal
with lots of goodness.
But really, when you're taking
something from prototype
into production, really,
that observability piece is
critical to what you're doing.
And so, we want to make sure we
understand not just what our AI
system is actually outputting
here, but ensuring, essentially,
as part of this, we are tracing,
we're evaluating,
and monitoring.
And so tracing lets you see
that end-to-end visibility
across prompts.
We also make sure that tracing
is giving you that information
that you need for tools.
Evaluation, of course,
lets us understand quality
and safety and agent behavior.
And then monitoring, of
course, is with Azure Monitor.
You can see that brings in the
real-time signals that you need
for cost and latency and
all of those pieces.
So, if you want to make sure
your AI system is really great,
we want to think about this
from a confidence perspective,
really think about
building observability
into your loop straight away.
Now, we have a great demo
that's part of this, too.
We won't go through
this too much.
But just to show you what
this looks like very quickly
on the Foundry portal.
You can see these
directly in here.
You can see the different areas.
And in this case, I'm picking
on the time to the last byte.
And I'm actually going to ask
Copilot directly in here,
how do I improve this?
And it actually shows it
to me directly in here.
So, just a really great way of
being able to check out all
of these different capabilities
and having Copilot assistance
directly in here, too.
All right.
Take us home.
Yina Arenas:
Yeah.
So, multiple steps,
multiple levers.
Throughout the session, we
showed an end-to-end scenario
and what are the set of
things that you can do
to improve in quality.
So, at every step, this is
the notion of hill climbing
that you saw us talk about
in the keynote today,
the quality improving over time.
But the key sort of thing and,
again, the key
takeaway is, start
with your evals, the
definition of success.
How do you define that
success criteria?
Foundry helps you along the
way with the new capabilities
that we have, where you
can bring in your code,
bring in your prompt, or have
Foundry help you build
up those rubrics
using, now, the new set
of rubric-based
evals capabilities.
So, at the end of the day,
make sure that you're building
the system, not just the prompt.
Long gone are the days of
just prompt engineering.
You need to make sure
that you're picking
up the best model
for the workload.
Decompose the set of
scenarios that you have.
Think about old-school
microservices architecture
when you're building
your solutions.
Evaluate on your
particular scenario.
Think about all of the different
sets of optimization
capabilities
that you have across
quality, latency, and cost.
And then, understanding that
understanding of your scenario,
as I mentioned before,
becomes your IP that, then,
you can further optimize on.
You need to operate
with control.
Make sure that monitoring,
versioning, governing,
being able to roll
back, fully integrate
into your CI/CD pipeline.
All of those different pieces,
we enable and support as part
of Foundry, with the integration
that we have with GitHub.
And then, as we showed
during the session,
continuously improve, so that
you can actually build not only
solutions that meet the goal,
but that continuously meet
that goal over time
as everything else
changes around you.
Naomi Moneypenny:
All right.
So, if we step
back, this is your
value proposition on Foundry.
Of course, we think about this.
We're basically
having a great way
to select the model
to start off with.
You can think about
how you scale
that model as part of this.
You can then optimize it,
take it out globally,
think about how you think about
changes and demand over time.
How do I iterate across
this entire process?
And then, of course, keep
control, security, compliance,
operations all the way through.
It's not about model choice.
This is about the
entire platform value
that we're delivering as part
of Foundry, and really having
that way to build smarter
systems as models
and costs keep evolving.
So, what else should we learn?
Yina Arenas: Well,
there's a lot of other sessions
that we have at the conference
for you to take a look.
Please join or watch
the recordings.
This is part of
the end-to-end set
of solutions that
Foundry offers.
We talked about, in this
session, more about models,
but there's other sessions
that are going to go deeper
into post training, deeper
into agentic solutions,
deeper into safety and
responsible AI as well.
And we're here to help
you along the way.
Please connect with us.
Start building with Foundry;
ai.azure.com is the one thing
that you need to remember.
The session code where
you can find the link,
where you can find all of the
codes that we shared as well.
And then, we have a very
active Discord community.
Please join us there.
And thank you for
joining us today.
We appreciate that
you're all here.
And I hope that you had a great
time learning with us how
to continue to improve
your AI systems.
Naomi Moneypenny:
Thank you, folks.
[ Applause ]